 Erica Girls’ Primary School  scooped several accolades, including the overall design wrap, at the Design An Allspace Kombi 2019 competition. After  the success of the Design-a-Kombi competition launched two years ago, the theme for third instalment shifted to Design An Allspace Kombi to coincide with the  the 50th anniversary of the moon landing. A call made to Bay primary and high school pupils to design a wrap for the Allspace vehicle with space in mind, drew an exceptional response, with thousands of entries being submitted. A whopping 12,947 people voted on the competition website for their favourite design, with a Public Vote Award being introduced in 2019. At the prizegiving last week, Nelson Mandela Bay pupils turned out to be the stars of the show, with the finalists each receiving acknowledgment on stage as they were presented with  their framed entries. The  R20,500 cash prize was shared among the winners and their schools. The top three finalists in the Public Vote category were: In third position, with 637 votes, Steffanie Chan from St Dominic’s Priory, second place with 681 votes went to Aashiqah Abrahams from Erica Girls’ Primary and the winner, with a grand total of 827 votes, was Likhwezi  Gcasamba from Erica. The Junior Primary category was won by Emme Wenzel from Clarendon Primary. A total of 222 pupils entered in the category In the primary school category, 275 entries were received. The top three overall finalists were all from Erica. In third and second place were Likhwezi   Gcasamba and Aashqah Abrahams respectively and  the  winner was Buchule Maseti. She  was very excited to see her winning design wrapped around a Volkswagen Allspace. In the High School category, 218 entries were received, with the winning prize  awarded to Kayleen Govender of  Pearson High School. Genevieve Broccardo of Victoria Park High was second and Chloe Coetsee of Collegiate Girls’ High was third. “I have been asked why we run this competition annually and the reason is quite simple,” Tavcor Volkswagen’s GM for new car sales, Martin Taverner, said. “As a family business, Tavcor  wanted to engage with families in the  Bay and what better way than with a colouring-in competition. “We are blown away by the creativity of  pupils and the number of entries received this year,” he said. The 2020 Design competition will be launched early next year.