Athol Trollip will step down from his seat as a Nelson Mandela Bay councillor  on December 31. He will, however,  continue working for the DA as a mentor. DA provincial leader Nqaba Bhanga said Trollip had agreed to provide training to five of the party’s caucuses ahead of the 2021 Local Government Elections. “We have agreed that he will assist the DA in terms of training caucuses in municipalities next year,”  Bhanga said. This includes councillors in the Nelson Mandela Bay, Buffalo City, Dr Beyers Naudé, Blue Crane Route and Kouga municipalities. “He will assist us in training these caucuses to make sure we win,” he said. Trollip said he would also go into consulting. "I will be playing a role in a consulting role to bridge the divide between the private sector and the public sector. My experience in this field can be most helpful." Trollip said one of the reasons he had resigned from active politics was the chaos in the Bay council. "What is going on here is simply inconceivable and the current government is an absolute disgrace," he said. "We showed what could be done in two years and sensible people should make a comparison and then reject this chaos out of hand." "Those voters that voted for change got a taste of what can be achieved. "To those who didn’t vote please realize the power of your vote." Bhanga said it was a difficult time to lose Trollip in the  Bay with the problems the city faced. “But I have not given up on him as a statesman in SA. “He has skills we cannot let go of. “And remember a week in politics is a long time,” he said. Trollip resigned in October as  DA federal chair, minutes after the party’s leader, Mmusi Maimane, quit the party. “As chair of this party, I think it is fitting that I also take responsibility,” Trollip said at the time, referring to the party’s poor performance in the last general elections. Bhanga said Trollip had left a void  with his decision to step down as a councillor and federal chair. “He will remain with us in our hearts. “He is my mentor and friend. “I am just glad we will remain working together,” he said. Trollip served as the Eastern Cape provincial leader for 16 years, was the party’s legislature caucus leader for more than 10 years and became an MP. He was then was elected mayor of  the Bay before being ousted via a motion of no confidence tabled by the EFF.