R&B superstar R Kelly denied allegations that he sexually abused women and girls in his first public comments since being charged in April. “I did not do this stuff. This is not me,” Kelly told CBS This Morning on Wednesday, saying he was fighting for his life. Excerpts were released on Tuesday. He dismissed the allegations against him as rumours. “Whether they’re old rumours, new rumours, future rumours – not true,” Kelly said. He became upset and emotional during the interview. Kelly, 52, has pleaded not guilty in Chicago to 10 counts of aggravated sex abuse. He spent three nights behind bars and was released after coming up with $100,000 (R1.42m), 10% of the $1m (R14.21m) bail set in April. The sex acts are alleged to have occurred between May 1998 and January 2010, according to prosecutors. Kelly has been accused of sexual misconduct before. In 2002, he was charged after allegedly filming himself having sex with a 14-year-old. He was tried and acquitted of child pornography charges in 2008. Now he says his reputation is being used against him. “People are going back to my past. “That’s exactly what they’re doing.” Kelly also addressed a report by BuzzFeed in 2017 which said Kelly had kept women as sex slaves at homes he owns in Chicago and Atlanta. Kelly denied ever holding anyone against their will. The BuzzFeed allegations did not lead to any charges. In January, a six-part documentary, Surviving R Kelly was released, alleging he engaged in sexual, mental and physical abuse of girls and women. The 10-count charge sheet included three women who were between 13 and 16 when the alleged abuse occurred. Cook County (which includes Chicago) state attorney Kim Foxx said the charges each carry three to seven years of prison time. Kelly’s lawyer, Steve Greenberg, has said the charges were based on old and false accusations and that all of the women were lying. ● Meanwhile, some radio stations in Canada and the Netherlands have stopped playing Michael Jackson’s music and fans bombarded Oprah Winfrey with hateful messages after the broadcast of a documentary about alleged child abuse by the late singer. Leaving Neverland, in which two adult men say they were befriended by Jackson and were abused by him from the ages of 7 and 10 in the early 1990s, was met with a mixture of horror and disbelief after a two-part airing on channel HBO on Sunday and Monday. Winfrey conducted her own follow-up interview with accusers Wade Robson and James Safechuck that was broadcast on Monday night in front of an audience of assault victims. Winfrey was aware of the attacks they might face. “All the anger – you guys are going to get it,” she said during the interview. “You’re going to get it. I’m going to get it. “We’re all going to get it.” Robson told Winfrey he had already received death threats. Jackson’s family has called the documentary and news coverage of the accusations in it a public lynching and said he was 100% innocent.