Eskom and the government have pleaded for patience as they struggle to deal with severe power cuts that have crippled parts of the economy and threaten to become a key battleground in elections due in less than two months. At a media briefing that was short of answers on when load-shedding might end, public enterprises minister Pravin Gordhan apologised to the nation on Tuesday. “We understand the frustration. We don’t have a magic formula,” Gordhan said. “There is a huge struggle ahead of us to overcome this crisis.” The operational crisis at the utility is at its worst yet as stage four load-shedding was implemented for the fourth straight day on Tuesday, infuriating the electorate. Indications are that previous commitments to end loadshedding by April may not be met, and power cuts could run into the May 8 general election. Eskom has, however, denied reports that it is planning to increase load-shedding to an unprecedented stage five and six. Eskom spokesperson Andrew Etzinger said this was not on the cards. Public enterprises department spokesperson Adrian Lackay also denied the claims. In a sign of the potential costs to the economy, banking and retail stocks fell as Eskom warned load-shedding would continue to avoid grid collapse. Gordhan asked for a reprieve of 10 to 14 days, by which time Eskom’s technical review team will have completed an investigation into the power stations. While Eskom technically has almost 48,000MW of installed power-generation capacity, Gordhan said it was only able to provide an average 28,000MW. When demand exceeds supply, load-shedding is implemented to prevent the collapse of the power grid. Operationally, years of inadequate maintenance at existing power plants, paired with sub-optimal performance from the new Medupi and Kusile power plants, has caused unplanned outages. In recent days, damage to the line from cyclone-hit Mozambique has caused a loss of 900MW of electricity imports. In addition, a proliferation of leaks in boiler tubes has resulted in seven units being out of commission. “This is biting us big time,” COO Jan Oberholzer said. He said an external company had previously managed the utility’s boiler health maintenance programme, before the contract was cancelled 18 months ago. Eskom chair Jabu Mabuza said: “This equipment has worn, has torn. “There is no other answer than to fix it.” To do this, Eskom required time as well as emergency procurement procedures so that it could move with speed. Eskom is also struggling to procure diesel and has already spent R5bn to run its emergency open-cycle gas turbines over the past five months. Energy consultant Ted Blom said Eskom’s board had made little progress since it was appointed in January 2018. “They want time, but what are they doing with the time? “I think they are learning how to run a utility. And we are the guinea pigs.” Independent energy expert Chris Yelland said deep concern remained over the lack of a clear plan. - Additional reporting by TimesLIVE