Lace up your takkies for a fun and action-filled 2019 SPAR Eastern Cape Women’s Challenge at Pollok Beach on May 4. The 10km race, which draws a top field of athletes, starts at 7am while the gun goes off for the shorter 5km at 8am, attracting runners – and walkers – of all fitness levels. The Port Elizabeth leg of the SPAR Women’s Challenge is the first race of the 2019 National Grand Prix Series and participants will rub shoulders with some of SA’s leading long-distance runners. Expect loads of entertainment as Nelson Mandela Bay band Genesix will be revving up the post-race party, along with lucky draws and prizes. One lucky participant will win a prize of a year’s free groceries, courtesy of SPAR. SPAR Eastern Cape sponsorships and events manager Alan Stapleton said: “The SPAR Women’s Challenge ranks with the Comrades Marathon and Two Oceans as among SA’s most iconic road races and it has become an integral part of the city’s running calendar.” It has a unique flavour, as it spoke directly to women. “It is not just a race, it is a women’s challenge. “It calls on women to be bold, be happy and to have fun.” The Herald and Weekend Post editor Nwabisa Makunga said: “The SPAR Women’s Challenge has become synonymous with the vibrancy of SA’s evergrowing sporting culture. “We are proud to partner with SPAR in this phenomenal event, which captures the spirit of family, fun and altogether great energy of our beautiful city,” Makunga said. SPAR will again be aligning the fun race with its “Stop Plastic” campaign and to try to look at alternative products. The race entry is R60 (unlicensed runners pay R100 for the 10km race) and you will be running – or walking – for a special cause, with the PE charity Sanitary Sisters the beneficiary of 2019 race proceeds. Men may only enter the 5km, and need to dress in drag and run at the back of the field. ● Enter online at www.sparec.co.za or at selected SPAR stores in the metro. Entry forms are also available at Brian Bands, The Footballer, Action Sports and The Sportsman’s Warehouse.