The Algoa Bay fish farm project consultant confirmed on Thursday night that the controversial Summerstrand site was back on the Fisheries Department’s radar. Speaking at a public participation meeting at the Port Elizabeth city hall on Thursday night, Anchor representative Kenneth Hutchings said the department was pushing for a multi-prong option including finfish (yellowtail or kob) plus bivalves (oysters or mussels) to be farmed at the Summerstrand site. If approved this option would further include farming at a second site north of the harbour and fin fish farming off Coega. The first phase of the project would be carefully monitored and it would only expand to commercial scale if environmental quality standards were met, he said. The presentation was greeted with consternation by some members of the audience including one man who said while most people supported sustainable development, the site off Summerstrand made no sense. “In Heaven’s name surely there is a better site than this? We are one of the water sports capitals of the world and the department wants to stick a fish farm in the middle of the area of prime activity. That site must be scrapped.” Another member of the audience questioned how many jobs for local people would be created. “What is the department’s expenditure on this project and what are we getting out of it?” Marine biologist Dr Shirley Parker-Nance, a Rhodes research fellow and director of non-profit organisation Reef Diversity, said Algoa Bay’s shape and depth and many other specific characteristics made it uniquely rich in terms of biodiversity which in turn supported important sectors like tourism and fisheries. The department’s application, following on a previous effort five years ago which was suspended following huge opposition, was highly problematic therefore, she said. “You have embarked on a very expensive experiment you have never tried before. You do not know how many jobs will be created or whether the necessary private investment will be forthcoming. “Despite the opposition you met before you keep on pushing. You say you will step in if it’s not working but then there may be nothing left.” The project would not help jobless impoverished people, she said. “This project is for big business to make money not for the little guys.” A man in an ANC T-shirt said he disagreed, however, and that he did not want a repeat of the 2014 situation which saw the authorisation for the Summerstrand site withdrawn by the Fisheries Department after strong opposition and a formal appeal. “These appeals are making us angry,” he said. “The people are going to benefit through construction, transport and restaurants which will be come because of this project.” Oceanographer Dr Eckart Schumann, one of the leading researchers on Algoa Bay, called for strong onshore winds to be considered when gauging the possible flow of fish farm waste onto Hobie Beach. Hutchings said the marine specialist report due to be published in two weeks time had not taken this factor into account and it was unlikely that another study would be done. Wildlife and Environment Society regional chairman Gary Koekemoer noted that the National Environmental Management Act stipulated that local knowledge had to be considered in the environmental assessment of projects. Koekemoer said the benefits and costs of fish farming in Algoa Bay needed to be considered against highly successful existing enterprises like Iron Man which included a swimming leg off Summerstrand. He called for a sand flow assessment to be done to check if the fish cages would hinder the nourishment of bay beaches. Anchor’s Vera Massie said their 800-page pre-application document comprising a basic assessment report and maritime archeology, marine and economic study reports would be published in two weeks time and made available to interested and affected parties for comment over a 30-day period. After compilation of these comments, the consultant would submit a draft basic assessment report to the Department of Environmental Affairs and open the process up to a further 30-day comment period, she said. Further comments would be compiled as part of the final basic assessment report which would then be submitted to the Environment Department for a final decision.