Nelson Mandela Bay residents are suffering much longer periods of load-shedding at Stage 4 than those in other major centres, and should brace themselves for more of the same next week – or even worse. After a week in which regular Stage 4 outages took a heavy and disruptive toll on small businesses and outageweary residents, there are fears that the situation could worsen next week. As a result of the municipality’s decision to spare industry from blackouts, Bay residents – during Stage 4 – have up to 13 hours without electricity, compared to just the six hours experienced in some other cities. Bay residents, who comprise about 40% of all electricity consumers in the metro, have been shouldering the bulk of the crippling Stage 4 outages over the past week. This is according to the metro’s acting city manager, Peter Neilson, who admitted residential areas in the Bay had been subjected to more loadshedding than other metros’ residential areas around the country because the power cuts had not been applied to industrial areas in the Bay. In other major metros, load-shedding is applied across the board, including industrial areas. For example, a look at the schedules of certain area groups in Cape Town and Durban show that Stage 4 involves only three two-hour loadshedding sessions – equating to six hours – in a 24-hour cycle, while in the Bay Stage 4 could mean up to 13 hours without power. Neilson said industrial areas had been exempt following a decision to favour job preservation by protecting industry from outages, taken when load-shedding first started years ago. He also said the local infrastructure was unable to cope with multiple two-hour loadshedding sessions. “Should the load-shedding proceed into next week, the municipality will go back to the drawing board and possibly reconsider load-shedding in industrial areas as well,” said Neilson, who pointed out that industry was responsible for 60% of electricity consumption in the Bay. Confirming Neilson’s remarks, councillor Retief Odendaal, who serves on the municipal budget and treasury committee, said it was expected power demand would return to normal levels on Monday. He said it was therefore anticipated that load-shedding could resume at Stage 4 levels or even worsen next week. “We have had a reprieve [to Stage 2] due to Thursday being a public holiday, some businesses closing because of the holiday and load-shedding on Friday, and because this all runs into the weekend when demand drops,” Odendaal said. “However, as normal demand resumes on Monday, we anticipate that the load-shedding situation will worsen. “This will also, however, depend on whether Eskom has managed to effect its maintenance and is able to supply more power,” said Odendaal, reiterating that the power utility’s capabilities were under severe pressure. He said he had engaged with hundreds of Bay residents and had fielded many complaints from people who claimed it was unfair that they were being subjected to more load-shedding than residents in other metros. “And I quite agree with them. Along with this is the unique situation in our metro where industry comprises 60% of electricity consumers,” Odendaal said. The DA councillor sent out a WhatsApp message on why the Bay was being harder hit than other metros after consulting Neilson. “But when the decision was taken not to apply load-shedding to industry, we did not have Stage 4 load-shedding. “This is the first time we are experiencing Stage 4 in the Bay, so things have changed and we would have to revisit the Bay’s load-shedding schedule should the situation persist,” Odendaal said. The administration said it would be monitoring the situation very closely and would provide more information in due course. According to information published on Eskom’s website, while municipal and metro load-shedding schedules are different from the national utility’s schedules in design and detail, the utility has established principles for the design of its schedules in order “to ensure as much equity and consistency” as possible. Eskom added that in many cases, metros and municipalities had agreed to work according to the same principles, but that ultimately the power utility had no control over how those authorities determined their own schedules. Operations manager for Atlas Security in Port Elizabeth, Monty Montgomery, said loadshedding was “having a hell of an impact” on household security and the security industry. “The security game is all about timing and responding as fast as possible. “So when traffic lights are down and there is traffic congestion, this has a major impact on response times. “In addition, the number of alarms that are activated has increased tenfold due to rundown back-up batteries. “But we have to treat each alarm activation in exactly the same way as there could be a genuine emergency.” Montgomery said local organisations, such as neighbourhood watches, communities and businesses, were, however, playing a positive role. “We have been receiving lots of assistance from neighbourhood watches, help and understanding from communities, and businesses have been playing their role doing things such as being more vigilant and closing early during load-shedding to avoid criminality.” He urged communities to be more vigilant, take more precautions and to get more lighting, such as candles and solarpower lamps, in their homes. He also urged residents to check their alarm system batteries and to acquire back-up batteries. “While we have experienced far more alarms and other challenges, if I look at the statistics, the crime rate has not really changed,” Montgomery said. Small enterprises were found to be coping with the additional security challenges by either closing their businesses during blackouts, or using generators and access control whereby only a few people are allowed into a store at a time. For many small convenience stores in areas such as Richmond Hill and Central which tend to operate into the night, access control was their primary defence against criminality, with owners and employees serving customers through security gates. Fidelity ADT national marketing and communications manager Charnel Hattingh urged residents to test their domestic security systems as a matter of urgency. Hattingh added there were a number of practical steps that could be taken to ensure security was not compromised, including ensuring the alarm system has an adequate battery supply, that all automated gates and doors are secured, and to remain vigilant and report any suspicious activity. Hattingh said power cuts could also impact on fire-control systems, meaning they need to be checked regularly and that the more frequent use of gas and candles could also increase the risk of fires. With regard to alarm activation due to load-shedding, Hattingh said: “You can assist by manually cancelling any potential false alarms and thus help call centre agents in prioritising the calls needing urgent attention.” Prominent Port Elizabeth children’s activist and author Dianne Lang, who is extremely ill, has been put in a life-threatening predicament by loadshedding. Speaking on Lang’s behalf as she is too ill to communicate with the media, friend and well-known musician Ulagh Williams on Friday described the nightmare situation Lang is currently enduring. “Due to load-shedding, she is unable to run her oxygen . . . We are trying to get the public mobilised to donate towards helping to get the medication she needs from overseas and also to get a generator for them [Lang and her husband] to use. “We are desperate – she has saved so many lives, literally, and does not deserve to suffer this way.” Williams said Lang needed continuous power supply due to her illnesses. “Acquiring a generator is very expensive, but something that she really needs. We are trying to raise funds for this right now.” Retired nurse Ryna Bakkes said on Friday she was exhausted after a week of Stage 4 loadshedding. “I look after my mother who is 86 years old. She has serious heart problems and is on oxygen. She uses oxygen about 95% of the time. “We have a contract with a company to hire the equipment and the 1.8kg oxygen tank. The company couldn’t refill the tanks in time as people bought multiple oxygen tanks.” Tanks are used when oxygen machines are off due to outages. “On Sunday, we had to phone around because apart from an empty tank, the ma- chine was also giving trouble,” Bakkes said. “At night, I stay awake to switch off the machine and switch over to the oxygen tank. “It happened once or twice that I didn’t wake up in time and my mom had to wake me up because of serious chest pains,” she said. “I have been up every two hours all week. “At 6am on Tuesday, my mom had to go to the hospital to get oxygen. We have now in desperation bought a 4.8kg oxygen cylinder.” Requesting not to be identified, a Bay man who uses a continuous airway pressure machine for his sleep apnea, said load-shedding was a serious concern. “It is a concern as with any wall socket-powered medical device if they do not run on batteries. Sleep apnea is a very serious sleeping disorder where your sleep is interrupted due to lack of air in your lungs. “Imagine sleeping with a full face mask covering your mouth and nose and enjoying continued airflow into your lungs and then when the electricity goes off, this airflow stops. “When the power goes off, it is a bit of a shock to the system which will wake you up – if you don’t wake up, you can imagine the consequences.” He said while there were models of machines which had built-in battery backups, they were far more expensive. Aurora Hospital, which provides inpatient and outpatient care, said it was compelled to use a generator. Hospital manager Gaokaerlwe Moseki said: “We do have outpatients. Should they have problems, they can come into the hospital. The problems associated with load-shedding include our computer systems and the high costs involved in operating the generator. “With the high cost of fuel, the load-shedding is making a serious impact on running costs,” he said.- Additional reporting by Estelle Ellis