Three schools in Port Elizabeth’s Walmer Township are set to receive solar geysers as part of a pilot project by the national department of energy. Rosedale Primary School and Siyaphambili Primary School in Motherwell would also have solar geysers installed, energy minister Jeff Radebe announced on Tuesday. The schools in Walmer are Walmer Primary, Walmer High and John Masiza Primary School. Radebe was speaking at a certificate handover for 15 trainees who were recognised for completing the solar geyser installation programme rolled out in Walmer and Rosedale. He then went on a walkabout in Walmer, speaking to residents. Earlier in the day, Radebe officially opened the R4m Sea Vista Community Library in St Francis. The library was made possible by the Kouga Wind Farm, which donated money to build it. Speaking at the certificate handover, Radebe said the emergence of the fourth industrial revolution meant young people should take up subjects such as maths and science. “We promote renewable energy because as government we know that it has become increasingly affordable. “It is also in the National Development Plan that we need to have more wind farms and in terms of solar geysers we have been running a pilot project, particularly in the Eastern Cape,” Radebe said. Other municipalities participating in the pilot project include the Ndlambe, Makana and Elundini local municipalities. The South African German Energy programme is part of a partnership between the department of energy and the Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit. At the handover, Radebe announced that they would also donate a solar geyser to 19 year-old Walmer High School matric pupil Ntombisisa Mbambo. Ntombisisa said she had written to Radebe last week when she heard from street committees that he would be visiting the Bay. Ntombisisa said she was responsible for her younger siblings after her parents died. “I heard that the minister was coming and I had to write. “At first I wasn’t sure if he would respond, and I was happy when I received a response. “I am very excited because this means that we will have some relief at home,” Ntombisisa said.