Sudanese protesters on Sunday welcomed a breakthrough in talks with army rulers who agreed to form a joint civilianmilitary council, paving the way for the civilian administration demonstrators demand. Saturday’s agreement would replace the existing 10member military council that took power after the army ousted veteran leader Omar al-Bashir on April 11 amid massive protests. “What happened yesterday is a step towards civilian authority,” Mohamed Amin, one of the demonstrators who have been camped for weeks outside the army headquarters, said. “We are happy about the progress in the talks, but we are still waiting for the composition of the council and the civilian government.” The joint civilian-military council will be the overall ruling body, while a new transitional civilian government is expected to be formed to run the day-to-day affairs of the country. That civilian government will work towards having the first post-al-Bashir elections. “When we have a civilian government, then we can say our country is on the right track,” Amin said. The demonstrators said they would pursue their sit-in until a civilian administration was set up. “Last night’s agreement is a step forward in the stability of our country, but I don’t think we will leave the sit-in until we achieve our demand of a civilian government,” protester Sawsan Bashir said. Protest leader Ahmed al-Rabia confirmed the decision to form a joint council. “We are now in consultation about what percentage of the council should be represented by civilians and how much by the military,” Rabia said. On Sunday, protest leaders from the Alliance for Freedom and Change met to discuss the progress of talks with the military council. Later, the joint committee bringing together the military and protest leaders was expected to resume talks. Activists say the new council could be a 15-member body, with eight civilians and seven army generals. The decision to have a joint council came after hours of talks on Saturday, the first by a joint committee representing the current ruling military leadership and protesters. Al-Bashir was ousted by the army after months of protests against his three-decade rule. Thousands of demonstrators, braving volleys of teargas fired by security forces, reached the sprawling military headquarters on April 6, demanding that the army support those opposing al-Bashir. Five days later, the army toppled al-Bashir and took power through the transitional military council, which has so far insisted it has assumed power for a two-year transition. Western governments have expressed support for protesters’ demands, but Sudan’s key Gulf Arab lenders have backed the military council, while African states have called for more time for the army to hand over to civilians. Buses bringing protesters kept arriving on Saturday at the protest site, with hundreds of demonstrators coming from the eastern province of Kassala, an AFP photographer said. As the joint committee met on Saturday, top opposition leader and former premier Sadiq al-Mahdi said Sudan should join the International Criminal Court. Al-Bashir is wanted by The Hague-based tribunal for genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity for his alleged role in the conflict in Darfur, but has denied the charges against him. The United Nations says about 300,000 people have died in the conflict, with another 2.5-million displaced, many of them still living in camps across the country. Protest group spokesperson Amjad Farid said al-Bashir and others could be tried in Sudan. Previous StoryNext Story