The seven names put forward as the new board of directors for the Mandela Bay Development Agency (MBDA) are an extension of the ANC. This was declared by members of the opposition during a Nelson Mandela Bay council meeting on Thursday at which the council was meant to discuss the draft budget, among other items. While debating the proposed names for the MBDA board, the DA, Patriotic Alliance and ACDP described them as “cadre deployment”. The list includes former ANC councillors Vuyani Dyantyi, Pinky Kondlo and Mike Kwenaite, former COPE councillor Khwezi Ntshanyana, businesswoman Glenda Perumal, attorney Mxolisi Moolman and former Nelson Mandela Bay Tourism CEO Mandlakazi Skefile. DA councillor Athol Trollip said it was clear the ANC wanted to appoint its members. “The very same members who want to appoint their friends to the MBDA have an inconsistent view about the existence of the MBDA and its continuation,” he said. “For example, Mr Dyantyi is an unemployed former ANC councillor, Mr Ntshanyana is a former unemployed COPE councillor who was promised a position post the 2016 elections and Ms Skefile is an unemployed former NMB Tourism CEO.” Trollip claimed the ANC was sending cadres to the MBDA to siphon off money to ANC coffers so it could run elections. “These people are bringing no sufficient skills to the MBDA,” he said. DA councillor Jonathan Lawack warned the ANC not to abuse the MBDA for party political interests. “What do these individuals bring to the table other than their membership cards? “We cannot, and will not, endorse cadre deployments in Nelson Mandela Bay anymore.” ACDP councillor Lance Grootboom said: “When I look at this item, it’s friends, guys that you meet at the taverns making deals. “I want to see the skills they have.” PA councillor Marlon Daniels said deputy mayor Thsonono Buyeye had called him to discuss the appointment of the board. “The PA can’t support this list and we want it to be deferred,” he said. “We know that there is infighting in the coalition. “When I look at this list we have Moolman as number one. “This one is the brother of the political appointee. “I was asked about candidate number four, who is from the northern areas. “I thought the representation of the northern areas was needed but I see now that he wanted to control this.” Economic development political head Queenie Pink said 15 people had applied and, of those, only three were women, and that they appeared as candidates. “It was open and everyone could apply,” she said. “The requirements were that you must have legal, economic and community development experience and these people [had those].” The term of the current board ends on April 12. Buyeye, who chairs the MBDA member representative committee, said it would advertise the positions again and moved that the council extend the term of the current board by three months while it concluded the matter.