The ANC is not corrupt – it is the conduct of its leaders that is corrupt. That is the view of SACP first deputy general secretary Solly Mapaila. Mapaila, flanked by ANC councillors Andile Mfunda, Lunga Nombexeza, Rosie Daaminds and Makhi Feni, addressed a full Veeplaas Hall on Sunday afternoon at the launch of the Mbuyiselo Ngwenda District Red Brigades in preparation for the May 8 elections. The Red Brigades are SACP volunteers who assist the ANC with campaigning during elections. In addressing the crowd, Mapaila urged voters not to focus on corrupt individuals but the movement in its entirety. “We are not going to vote for corruption, but we are voting for the African National Congress. “Members who are [corrupt] and are on our lists will be dealt with post the election. “Now we are not going to bargain with anybody on the basis of their corrupt activities, but we are focusing on winning the elections . . . that is the primary mandate of the Communist Party at this time.” Mapaila said the SACP would organise a special national congress in December to resolve the issue of corruption. He urged the Red Brigades to ensure that in the remaining days before elections they intensify contact with people through consolidation of the SACP structures, create programmes of the SACP and build the alliance from the ground up. “Despite all of our challenges – internal, external – that we face as a movement we must not make a mistake and not consolidate the power that we have through government.” He said the strengthening of the tripartite alliance was mandatory to ensure that the struggles of the poor majority were realised. “If we lose these elections and we do not campaign well, the reversals that we will have in a few days will undo the progress that we have made in 2½ decades,” he said. Mapaila said these gains would only be attained if the movement consolidated the national democratic revolution which sought to eradicate the inequality of gender, race and class perspective through the removal of capitalism. ANC Ward 50 councillor Nombexeza echoed the view of Mapaila, saying that they, as the SACP, would not give the ANC a blank cheque. “We are supporting the ANC but we are clear that the ANC cannot recycle the same people to lead the elections, especially those who have been implicated in corruption. “Some have been mentioned in the IPTS report so we can’t have those people that have been rejected by the community to mobilise people to vote for the ANC.” The vote of thanks was done by Daaminds, who is the mayoral committee member for roads and transport.