Former president Jacob Zuma allegedly pocketed up to R300,000 a month from controversial government contractor Bosasa in exchange for doing its bidding. He allegedly collected the money through former South African Airways boss and Jacob Zuma Foundation chair Dudu Myeni, who is also alleged to have accepted lavish gifts from the company for her influence in government and close relationship with Zuma. Former Bosasa executive Angelo Agrizzi detailed the company’s allegedly corrupt relationship with Myeni and Zuma at the state capture inquiry in Johannesburg on Monday. He said Bosasa would pay R300,000 a month in cash to the Jacob Zuma Foundation and that Myeni would collect the cash, which was allegedly destined for Zuma’s pockets. He said he first met Myeni at the Sheraton Hotel in Pretoria where Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson introduced them. “[Watson] was quite open. “He would tell us he is paying her R300,000 per month,” Agrizzi said. “He would always say he hopes she is giving it to Zuma. “And the payment was for the Jacob Zuma Foundation. “The strange thing was that it was always cash. The payment was made to Myeni. On occasion, I would have to pack the money.” Myeni also allegedly received expensive gifts. “[Watson] said he needed to impress Myeni. I said, ‘Don’t ask me, ask my wife’. “My wife said to me to buy a handbag from Louis Vuitton. “The handbag was delivered to Bosasa offices and [Watson] put R300,000 in the bag and delivered it to Myeni ... “I was there. I knew what was happening. “Myeni thanked me personally afterwards for choosing the bag for her,” Agrizzi said. “There were times she would call on [Watson] to arrange high-end functions, expensive functions for Jacob Zuma, and there were times she needed stuff done at her house in terms of security.” In exchange for Bosasa’s alleged monthly payments, Zuma is said to have used his influence to help effect legislative changes and cripple investigations into the company. After Bosasa was approached by Falcon Oil and Gas over a Karoo fracking transaction in the Northern Cape, Myeni is said to have coordinated a meeting at Zuma’s Nkandla home between Zuma, Watson, Falcon Oil CEO Philip O’Quigley and attorney Lizel Oberholzer in 2016. The meeting allegedly discussed legislative changes that were needed to continue with the fracking project. “The meeting was to effect legislative changes that the oil and gas industry required. The meeting with the president was extremely successful. “The [energy] minister’s advisers were instructed to meet with Oberholzer and make the legislative changes needed. “Suffice to say, Bosasa was favoured by the president.” There were numerous meetings co-ordinated at the Nkandla residence. “[Watson] was concerned [Zuma] wasn’t getting the R300,000,” Agrizzi said. “He said he was going to deliver it directly to the president and make sure he has been getting it from Myeni. “[Watson] told me he placed the bag [of money] next to Zuma and asked him, ‘Does Dudu give you your money every month?’ The answer was yes.” Bosasa’s relationship with Myeni and Zuma was allegedly used to stifle ongoing investigations into fraud, corruption, money-laundering and racketeering at the company. “There was also an issue with the Hawks,” Agrizzi said. “They [Bosasa] needed to get clarity and finality on this. “They raised the issue with [Zuma] and he said, ‘let me make a call or two’. “The Hawks then got hold of [Bosasa chair] Joe Gumede and arranged a meeting.” He also accused Myeni of leaking confidential documents relating to the investigation into Bosasa. This was alleged to have happened at another meeting at the Sheraton Hotel between Agrizzi, Watson and Myeni. “She [Myeni] explained to us that she had meetings at the National Prosecuting Authority. She said they were working on closing down the case. “She gave me the docket and said, ‘you can write down things but please don’t make copies and take photographs’. “It looked like a police case docket. She took some notes out of the folder and said I must look at these notes.” Agrizzi said he had asked to be excused so he could make notes. He admitted to taking photographs of the docket as he was pressed for time. “It was asked that she go to the president and get it [the case] closed up immediately.”