“She was a mother and her heart was open,” Nelson Mandela Bay  COPE councillor Siyasanga Sijadu said  at a memorial service held for  Koleka Ngumbela on Tuesday. Several speakers spoke kindly of the 69-year-old DA councillor, who died on Tuesday last week after battling an illness. They highlighted her kind nature, impeccable style and  belief in God. The  memorial service was held at the Lillian Ngoyi Community Sports Centre in Kwazakhele. Her 35-year-old daughter, Phindiwe Ngumbela, said Ngumbela would be remembered for her firm belief.. “Our mother gave us everything, and most important was her teachings and values to always respect people regardless,”  Phindiwe said. She said Ngumbela had been a  dedicated DA member and  a mother to all. Siyasanga Sijadu described her as the kindest of all Bay councillors. “I don’t think there could be anyone who could come forward and speak badly about her. “She was a mother and her heart was open,” Sijadu said. She described Ngumbela as elegant and  exceptional woman who had  led by example. “It hurts to know I will never see her again, but her fighting spirit will remain there and we thank her family for allowing us to have a piece of her,” Sijadu said. DA Eastern Cape MPL Yusuf Cassim said Ngumbela had been a dedicated member who always put people first. “She believed in serving others,” he said. DA councillor Athol Trollip said Ngumbela loved God and lived an amazing life, with an  amazing family and colleagues. He said she joined the DA with a vision to help the party build a better SA for all with unity and no discrimination. “She was a good woman and led by example. “So many spoke of how elegant she was; Ngumbela could make a party T-shirt look sexy,” Trollip said. DA Eastern Cape  leader Nqaba Bhanga   said she had been was a hard-working, dedicated and committed councillor, and a God-fearing woman. “We are here to celebrate her life. “Koleka balanced her life, she was clear and very professional,” he said. He said  she had lived an exemplary life and would be forever remembered for the good role she had played in  society at large. Ngumbela’s funeral will be held in KwaMagxaki   on Thursday at a venue yet to be confirmed.