It is a meagre sum — just $9 (R130) a month — but for many families in poverty-stricken Zimbabwe, it is their last shred of hope. The innovative scheme by the UN’s World Food Programme (WFP), UKAID and Denmark’s DanChurchAid (DCA) is helping thousands of urban households that each day face a struggle to survive. “We used to fill the children’s school lunch boxes with porridge, but now they get popcorn and crisps — they are happy,” Anna Kubeta, a 63-year-old beneficiary, said. The visually impaired grandmother shares a cramped three-bedroom brick cottage with one of her adult children and four grandchildren, all of them of school-going age. Her 35-year-old son Aaron Munyoro, who has been unemployed for 15 years, receives the family’s cash aid on his phone every month. “Thanks to the cash transfers, the children’s diet is less monotonous these days. We actually can afford some meat and flour,” Munyoro said. The combination of an economic meltdown and extreme drought has seriously worsened the plight of Zimbabweans, who were already struggling. Nearly half of Zimbabwe’s 15-million people live in a state of chronic food insecurity — some 2.2-million in urban areas and five-million in the countryside, according to UN figures. In a visit in November, the UN special rapporteur on the right to food, Hilal Elver, warned that Zimbabwe was on the “brink of man-made starvation”. Epworth, an informal settlement 15km  southeast of Harare, is an area in desperate need. Most of its residents are unemployed and have never had running water, sewerage facilities or access to health care. Nearly 4,000 households are food-insecure, according to a survey. DanChurchAid  has additionally funded a mushroom-farming project within the WFP’s pilot scheme. “We hope that after the end of the disbursements, households are able to stand on their own through the resilience and livelihood activities that complement their food security and income,” DCA programme head Chipo Chipudhla said. After aid dries up, she said, many people were forced into dropping out of school,  early marriage and prostitution as they have no other options. Memory Ruvinga, a mother of three, said the cash transfer, combined with the farming, had enabled her to feed her family three times a day. Her husband left home to look for work as an artisan miner months ago when the family first signed up for aid, but has not returned. “But it’s all right, we are still getting his US$9, which means more food for the children.” Although the $2.50 (R36) she makes every three to four days from selling mushrooms brings relief from hunger, she cannot afford to keep her children in school. “The two older ones are at home because their schools asked for some extra money which I do not have. The seven-year-old has never been to school because I cannot afford the fees,” Ruvinga said. — AFP 