In the latest twist in the tale of axed DJ Daron Mann, a sponsor who poured in more than R150,000 in prizes for the annual Algoa FM Big Walk for Cancer  confirmed she had cut ties with the radio station and pulled her sponsorship. She  has instead opted  to organise a peaceful protest to show support for  Mann and animal rights in general. On Sunday, animal activist and  Black Cat Organic Health Products co-founder Michelle Campbell said after Mann was fired for airing his views on the treatment of animals at  a  dairy farm, she could not allow her brand to be associated with Algoa FM. “I was going to sponsor R150,000 in prizes [for the Big Walk for Cancer]  and I bought 100 tickets and planned to bus people to the event, but I cannot put my brand behind a corporation which fires someone for airing their views. “Corporations need to be censored about what is going on,” Campbell said. She said her company along with Ban Animal Trading (BAT) had decided to host a peaceful protest in support of  Mann  on October 25, the day before the Algoa FM Big Walk for Cancer. “It is a tactical move to garner maximum effect. “[The protest] is to support [Mann] and what happened to him as well as animal rights. “This is a way to enable us to stand by what [Mann] said. We are using this opportunity to bring attention to the mistreatment of animals and enlighten people to what is happening out there,” Campbell said. Mann, who was contracted to Algoa FM and presented the morning show between 6am and 9am, was fired last week after he made comments about the dairy industry. Mann, a staunch animal rights activist and vegetarian, had said during a chat with co-host Charlton Tobias that “the  dairy industry was horrific”, prompting an Algoa FM advertiser, Humansdorp-based Woodlands Dairy, to lodge a complaint. Mann was suspended shortly afterwards and ultimately axed. Campbell said Mann had been vocal about animal rights over the past few years and  was known for being outspoken. “[Mann] is a maverick. I do understand that [Mann] was in breach of his contract [with Algoa FM]. “[The protest] is not a bashing session against Algoa FM but we do want to send a message to them that what they did was not right [to fire Mann],” Campbell said. Contacted by The Herald on Sunday, Mann said he was “taking some down time” and would comment later in the week about the planned protest. “People have reached out and been kind. I now need to get over this that has happened. “I just want to say a big thank you for all the support,” Mann said. Algoa FM MD Alfie Jay said any withdrawal of sponsorship for the Algoa FM Big Walk for Cancer would be a double blow to those who benefited from the fundraising event. “I appeal to everyone concerned to ensure that this year’s family-orientated walk will proceed smoothly,” Jay said. According to Jay, there was no sponsorship agreement between the station and Campbell. “Algoa FM has always and will continue to condemn criminal cruelty to animals. “We regularly feature animal welfare organisations on Algoa FM and our news team is not influenced by commercial interests when reporting on criminal activity, including incidents of animal cruelty,” Jay said.